# Meraki_Configuration_Audit

Prerequisites -PIP - https://macpaw.com/how-to/install-pip-mac For mac, in terminal run- ‘pip3 install meraki’ (this will install the meraki python library) -Check your python version and ensure your running python version 3 python -V or python3 -V. If your not on python version 3 you can download here: https://www.python.org/downloads/mac-osx/ or use homebrew if you have it and run ‘brew install python’
Use with Meraki Python SDK @ github.com/meraki/dashboard-api-python/ & install required libraries with
pip[3] install -r requirements.txt

The purpose of this tool is to run configuration audits of Cisco Meraki networks. You select the org or orgs you would like to audit, select which configurations you would like to audit (for configurations involving IP's or subnets it will give you the option to which octect we will check to see if matching. Use case: networks usually will not have overlapping LAN subnets so L3 firewall rules will likely be different.), then you select a golden image. The golden image is a network or template that all networks will be checked against, lastly you select the networks to which you want to audit against the golden image. You will then have the option to run the report locally and download, run locally and email, or run on a schedule and email. Once the report is run you will download or be emailed a zipped folder. When you unzip you will have the report along with CSV and JSON files of the configurations of the golden image and the audited networks. The report will lay out for you at an overall level if everything is compliant, if not it will list the networks that were not compliant, and then it will list out all the of the networks and configurations and which ones were compliant and non compliant. The last section will flag any security concerns in your configs and then a recommendations section on how to fix the non compliant checks.

If you are planning on sending emails you will need to configure your SMTP server. You can manually set your SMTP server settings in the email_serice script on lines 13,14,15 and 56,57,58,59,60. And in the scheduling script on lines 199,200,201 and 239,240,241.
It is receommnded to use permanent environmental variables for your SMTP server configurations which can be found on these lines as well.
On Mac you can use "nano ~/.zshrc" and underneath the current configuration in file add your variables, "MAILGUN_API_KEY=xxxxxxx" and then load these variables to your terminal with "source ~/.zshrc". Next, check to make sure these variables saved correctly with "echo $MAILGUN_API_KEY".


To run the program download all scripts and store in the same directory. Create a file in the directory called "Templates" and store all the html files in this folder. Also create a "schedules" folder. This will be an empty folder unless you schedule a report to be run on a frequency. Open your terminal and navigate to the directory where these scripts are stored. Then run the app.py script with, "python3 app.py". This will launch the web browser which coordinates the program. Navigate to the webapge by opening a browser and entering in the url field, "http://127.0.0.1:5000/".If you are going to run the report continuously on a schedule its recommended to leave this program running even after terminal closure by using "nohup python3 app.py &" as the program will need to be running when the report is supposed to execute.
